Kaddi is an HTTP to enable to observer a
tenon go by Matt hold it supports its
GPS by default and we're gonna talk
about that and it's one of the easiest
web servers that provide a lot of
functional things such as proxying and
load balancing and much much more
recently it's also supported quick which
is the new HTTP 3 hopefully once it's a
it is approved by the internet
Engineering Task Force in this video I'm
gonna show you guys how to set up Kaddi
webserver how to run it locally as just
vanilla unsecured HTTP webserver which
we have done that a lot this channel and
then finally we can know how to secure
to the HTTPS which is the best part of
cutty which takes all the hassle from me
okay there's something we need to do
first
well that's no very hard and we talked
about it in the channel right we're
gonna probably make another video
showcasing the advanced features and the
Cadi file and all that stuff right that
you can do that I'm gonna make this a
very short video if you new here welcome
my name is Visayan and in this channel
we discuss all sorts of software
engineering by exam so if you're going
to become a better software engineer
consider subscribing hit that Bell icon
so you get notified every time I upload
a new video what I say let's just jump
into this video guys alright so the
first step here I'm gonna break this
video into four parts maybe the first
part is the installation I am going to
use Mac but I'm gonna reference
hopefully and the banner here you're
gonna see a link to the awesome job that
Matt did the author of this web server
with the dock so there is great duck
showing you the installation on Windows
Linux and Mac you essentially want to be
able to get to a state where you can go
to your command prompt and rice Cuddy
and not get an error essentially right
that's what we want to get into right
that's the state you wanna download it
said the path do we do that jazz and
then once you do that you're ready to
essentially set run your webserver so
the first step that's that kind of step
is I wanna run the web server you get
you have an HTML page handy dandy in
hand alright so we can we're gonna use
that and then once you have this page
we'll have running or the next section
where we want to expose your mission
to the public internet which is not
exposed by the by default right you can
argue that you can do the whole tutorial
on the cloud and you can skip the whole
thing but if you don't want to spend the
money or you just want to test and just
drive it on your own machine you can
definitely do that we're going to do a
port forwarding from my router to expose
my private local IP address to the
public internet so so obviously this
certificate authority can generate a
certificate for me and then secure my
server okay and then finally we're gonna
run it with the secure HTTPS so let's
just jump into this card so to install
that we will basically use homebrew if
you have Mac you can install homebrew
and homebrew is just basically this is a
repository registration where you can
download and install stuff or it's it's
like a distribution right so you can do
brew install Cuddy right and essentially
that does it for us okay it's gonna
download and that's just it's just honey
makes guys it's really cool alright it's
a very small file once you do that yeah
it's clear and then let's go to a folder
that has my index dot HTML or the
content that I want to serve and my
content is a gonna pay a folder called
static page and I created an index.html
file here and if we just them in here I
can show you how the ward served by
catalyst that's the HTML it's a very
simple stuff game but let's just show
you the idea once you are in the same
folder literally just type caddy okay
and if you hit enter you will be served
sir
with default portage HTTP and the
default was 2015 and I think that's the
year where caddy was being written
essentially I think that's when he
released caddy so he used that as the
default port kind of nostalgic in a way
I like it so 2015 right so let's test
this thing just drive it alright guys
here I have a chrome here open so if I
type
of those are gonna work right if I type
localhost 2015 which is the default port
there you go it works alright if you got
404 that means you don't have a default
indexed to the HTML page or if you have
like a specific page name you can just
do the folder name and then say in HTML
whatever your name is right whatever the
pages yeah you can also use the IP
address I think this is my IP address
yeah that works too so you can use the
your local IP address okay and you can
use also on your hostname to basically
consume this page this is this is boring
though right because if I went to the to
my mobile phone on 4G and try to consume
this page I'm gonna get an error because
I am not on that internal network if I
am on Wi-Fi yes I can consume it but if
I give this link to my friend through
whatsapp or whatever they cannot consume
this thing because it's not on the
public Internet so what do you do who
was in the public Internet only one
device if you're assuming this is your
internal Wi-Fi and your machine is on
the Wi-Fi or it's directly to the router
you have one public IP address and that
guy is the router and the router does
not we talked about nag guys I'm gonna
reference the video here and it
basically NAT things up network address
translation it translates your private
IP address to the public IP address so
this is the router page and I can show
you that this is my public IP address
okay and obviously if I give this public
IP address to my friends it's gonna get
an error because it doesn't know where
to forward this request to right so
that's where we need to talk about port
forwarding and I'm gonna make I made a
detailed video about public IPS versus
private IP is if you want to know more
about I'm get a reference it right here
guys go watch that video if you want to
learn them essentially we have an HTTP
server now but I want a fancier of TV
server I want a HTTP server that runs
port 443 and an HTTP server that runs on
port 80 which is that's the default port
right I want Cuddy to do this for me but
to do that we need kinda to expose my
machine to the public Internet and this
this is done by port forwarding so
here's my firewall configuration on my
router I don't know why it's called fire
wars is essentially a net version of the
fire of the router and what it does I
created two rules here it says hey
router if you received a request coming
from the public internet on your port 80
please forward it to moi and why is this
machine that is I'm running Husain Mac
right on the same port okay I literally
created that that rule okay once you do
that I named it letter HTTP and HTTPS
okay once you do that you will be ready
to do the next thing okay which is you
go and register for a dynamic DNS now we
have a public a public IP address I can
give this public IP address to my
friends and that will work right but
it's boring who remembers public IP
addresses how do you even remember this
thing okay it is impossible so what we
do instead is we create a domain name
like that Billy - Billy - Billy do it
Jose no SOCOM or google.com or whatever
and so you can register a domain name
and then point it using what we call an
a record - your IP address this is
literally a new record and domain like
GoDaddy or Google charges you for last
record they charge you money like yearly
sometimes it's like as cheap as one
dollar a year sometimes it's like as
expensive as three hundred dollars
depending on how popular your domain
becomes right but there is this side
that's called no IP and there's another
one called Dyne Tom that allows you to
register for free right but here's the
thing you don't get to pick fancy names
you get to pick boring ugly names all
right and it's free who cares right so
that's the cool thing go ahead and
register in
no IP calm do your thing once you
register and all that thing you go to
this page and you create a host team and
here's what you do you create a host
name and you say I want an error code
which is that's what we said hey I want
to point to end point the host name to
an IP for address which I have right and
then let's call it I don't know I'm
gonna come on Dante that's the first
novel I read and then this is what you
get you get you get these that's what
you get right just take anything so two
utilities calm right it's ugly
right you don't get it's free because
it's free right and here's what I want
to do right
actually no IP actually detects your
public IP and shows it to you but if you
don't know it go to your router and then
just do that copy and paste it okay it
will just detect it for you and then
pick a record and then create hostname
and that's your last name right there
this is now this is my website that that
this is anyone down theta3 utilities or
come it's very ugly I know but who cares
it's worth testing it's free right so if
you if you wanna you can pay no IP to
give you a proper host name like your
name comm we don't care about that now
okay now we have a record we have this
record points to this IP so any requests
to that host name will take me to my
router which guess what if someone is
visiting port 80 or 443 to my machine
which is hopefully running Cuddy okay so
let's do that I know I'm pronouncing
Kadir incorrectly right I have a thick
accent you guys made this very clear all
right so here is here's the thing okay
guys it's very simple let's kill this
Cuddy instance but this is what I want
to do what do you want to do is do Cuddy
- host and then I think I copied that
thing right in $1 or three or three days
calm here's the cool thing about how do
you will generate a public key for your
public key private key certificate right
the whole thing and then it will secure
it for you so it will host that stuff it
will communicate with let's encrypt
which is the certificate authority
throw any
which is pretty pretty cool if you think
about it right those guys it's you can
donate for them obviously I really
recommend that but those do it for free
for you that's amazing right you have to
pay for a certificate to say that hey my
server is secure and trusted but guess
what let's encrypt do it for free that's
pretty cool once you do that here's the
thing the first thing is gonna ask you
Cuddy will ask you hey by the way you
have to provide your your email that's
the least thing you can do right because
they need to know this is a real person
behind this server right just in case
things went wrong
it's ok you can email me guys I just
don't know spam please and then here's
the thing guys if you don't get this and
this is what happened to me the first
time I was experimenting with caddy I
think that's how you say it and then I
got a lot of problems I didn't do ever
work for me so I'm gonna show you what I
did to fix it all right after this video
after this part but once you do is going
to contact this is gonna do a lesson
creb do all that thing requesting
certificate and guess what guys it will
by default I didn't specify the port
right it actually run on port 443 and 80
and guess what guys now if I go to this
guy let's go to the chrome again and we
are secure see this lock this is a
secure side guys you just spin up a shut
your web server guys all right so this
is pretty cool this is pretty cool right
this is very cool anything using I think
TLS 1.3 virgins free which is amazing
guys right we talked about TLS I'm gonna
reference it here guys TLS 1.2 version
1.3
huge performance difference okay
alright guys so here's what you do when
you get into trouble with us if you get
errors with this here's what you do
there is a dot kadhi file caddy there
was a dude caddy file that gets created
if you first do this and you do a
mistake like I don't know anyway I did
this
four and I I never got it to work right
because I had this old stale caddy
folder there so to to find that folio at
least and Mac you can go to home
I think it's called users and then your
username and then you can find caddy
folder just remove that thing kill it
kill that caddy folder and then try
again and that will work for you okay
cuz that that's what did it for me okay
that's that's Rick alright guys hope you
enjoyed this video you just spin up and
secure HTTP public for free guys right
so you can now give this link to anyone
all right
and they will essentially work normally
because this is what happening rights
let's go quickly through it because we
ended this video we created someone
visit this what say h right it's on
let's say even an HTTP is gonna be
redirected image it automatically to
HTTP that's what caddy does as well if
your view visit this I killed the server
that's why if you visit this web page
what happens is it goes to that domain
and says okay who is this guy who is it
Mon Dante it is this a public IP so it's
gonna send a request right so that's a
lot up very quick lookup using UDP I
believe find the IP address makes a get
request to this IP at resolves at just
establish two attempts to establish a
TCP connection with this on port 80
which is the default because you didn't
specify any port here what goes there
and its next request on port 80 which
tends go and says okay port 80 yeah I
have a rule that says port 80 please
forwarded to a Mac which is this machine
that I'm recording from alright and then
it says yeah alright that's okay we we
have it and then Kerry says hey port 80
is no cool because I don't want you to
work on port 80 I want you redirected to
port 80 over three so it it will
responds with a redirect command I think
three on one most permanently and then
says hey please connect to this site
instant so it will close
that TCP connection create another TCP
connection 443 as a TLS handshake and
all that jazz and then immediately
connect you to that right hopefully she
goes back to the router and does all
that stuff all right guys I hope you
enjoyed this video if you enjoyed it
give it a like and go to get go get some
laughs - Matt right and he's he built a
really cool application if you go to
Wikipedia he built this thing in five
months right kudos right kudos to this
guy man if you matter if you were
listening to this man kudos you did a
great job man all right that's the
refirming guys stay awesome that's the
end the next one goodbye